1. What are your strengths ?

Answer :

The interviewer will ask this to find someone who will perform in the position and get along with the team. With this question, the interviewer seeks to find out if Your strengths align with the company’s needs,
You can do the job and perform like a rock star,   You are the best person for the job — no need to hold out for someone better, You have qualities, skills, and/or experience that set you apart from the competition, You are someone who will make an excellent addition to the team

The best place to start (as always) is your job offer. Underline or highlight all the skills and qualifications that you see listed. Strengths are work related skills that you need to do the job.
 
Ability to learn from mistakes
Creative thinking
Task prioritization
Discipline and determination
Analytical thinking
Communication skills
Dedication and enthusiasm
Interpersnal skills and respectfulness
Organisational skills
Ability to multitask


Example Strength 1 : Leadership skills

I’ve always been a natural leader. With over 6 years of experience in Health Care, I’ve exceeded my KPIs every quarter and have been promoted twice in the past six years. I look back at those successes and know that I wouldn’t have reached them if I hadn’t built and led teams composed of highly skilled and diverse individuals. I’m proud of my ability to get cross-functional groups on the same page. I’ve regularly honed my management skills through 360 reviews and candid sessions with my team, and I know continuing to build my leadership skills is something I want from my next role.”

Example strength 2: Interpersonal skills

I’m an empathetic person who’s skilled at relating to people and making them feel heard. In one memorable instance from earlier this year, I was on a support call with a customer whose contract we had terminated. Reinstating the service agreement would have increased her rates dramatically. She was understandably upset and felt trapped because she couldn’t be without car insurance for her and her family. It became clear very quickly that we couldn’t meet her needs but I wanted her to walk away with a favorable impression of the service we had provided. I talked her through some of her other options, even letting her know of other providers who might be able to offer her a lower rate so she could avoid a lapse in coverage. In the feedback survey from that interaction, she specifically mentioned that she would still be recommending our services to others. In my career in customer support, I’ve had many interactions like this—they are complex but end with the customer still feeling positive.

Example strength 3: Organization skills
I never miss a deadline. I’m highly organized, and I’ve applied my natural skill for organizing people and projects to all aspects of my work. After seven years of working as a project manager, I’ve had only one late product launch. From that experience, which took place three years ago, I learned a crucial lesson about trade-offs. I spent time addressing a crucial design need and that pushed everything else back. I wouldn’t trade the lessons I learned from that experience for anything—being sure to communicate to stakeholders about upcoming roadblocks chief among them.





2. What are your weaknesses ?

Answer :

We all have weaknesses but rarely want to admit to them, it’s best to begin with a truthful. answer and build your script from there. Select an answer that a hiring manager would not consider to be essential qualities or skills for the position as well as qualities that you are actively improving.


1. I have trouble saying “no.”
“My greatest weakness is that I sometimes have trouble saying ‘no’ to requests and end up taking on more than I can handle. In the past, this has led me to feel stressed or burnt out. To help myself improve in this area, I use a project management app so I can visualize how much work I have at any given moment and know whether or not I have the bandwidth to take on more.”

2.I have a hard time letting go of a project
“My greatest weakness is that I sometimes have a hard time letting go of a project. I’m the biggest critic of my work, and I can always find something that needs to be improved or changed. To help myself improve in this area, I give myself deadlines for revisions. This helps ensure I’m not making changes at the last minute.” 

3. It can be difficult for me to maintain a healthy work/life balance
 “Because I truly love my work and have ambitious career goals, it can be difficult for me to keep a healthy balance between work and my personal life. I have seen a negative impact on my motivation and focus when I ignore my personal needs. As a result, I have made it a point to focus on creating space in my schedule to focus on volunteering and spending time with my family. Taking small actions like putting my phone on silent during dinnertime is helpful. When I maintain a good work/life balance, I have found my output is better quality, I can get more work done and I feel excited about coming to work in the morning.”
 
 
 
 
 3. Why you want to change the job ?
 
 Answer :
 
 Desire to learn : I am interested in learning more about (something this job includes), and this job provides an opportunity to leverage my current areas of expertise and increase my skills in...
 
 Desire to gain a new skill or grow a current skill
 Desire to take on more responsibility
 My current job has been a great experience,I got to learn many new things, but growth is limited because the company is relatively small.So, to continue to grow
 
 
 

 
 
4. Tell me about when you failed to deliver a project / or meet the deadline ?

Answer :


“I was managing a project for one of our biggest clients in my previous company, and I was so eager to please them that I told them we could finish the project within 2 weeks. I thought this was doable, but it ended up taking 3 weeks and they were not happy. Looking back, I realized I should have been more conservative in my estimate to the client. I realized that a client isn’t going to be upset if you’re clear about the timeline in advance, but they are going to be disappointed if you promise something and then don’t deliver. So I took this experience and used it to become much better at managing expectations of clients during projects I oversee. For example, on the next project with a different client, I told them it’d take 4 weeks and we finished in 3. They were very happy about this.” 



In my recent employment history- I was hired to complete a project for an important and high-profile client. I was offered the opportunity to add other employees to my team for the job- but instead I chose to take the majority of the work on by myself- believing mistakenly that if I wanted it done right- I would have to do it myself. The workload proved to be too much for me. The project failed the first time around- and I ended up having to hire other team members at the time when I should have had the original project already completed. Together- we did end up bringing the project to completion eventually. Bouncing back from that mistake was a huge blow to my ego- but I have learned since that teamwork- delegation and working seamlessly with others is sometimes the best and only way to accomplish large tasks such as the one I was assigned.



“In my last job, our CEO gave me a chance to interview and hire entry-level people for our team. I chose to hire someone who seemed to have a lot of potential but also had some “red flags” or things that worried me. It ended up being a big mistake. They had a poor attitude and dragged the team down until my CEO had to fire them. I learned to be more careful and not rush my decisions and to speak with others on my team who have more experience if I’m unsure of something. I also realized how important each hiring decision is, which made me a better manager in the last couple years of my career. Since then, I’ve hired 8 other people and never had a bad experience like this again. But it was a great lesson to learn early in my career.”
